[MUSIC]
If you look inside of the sources file,
you will see the debug.py file.
Now if you open that, you'll see the code
exactly the same as what I've got here.
And in this video I'm going to be
showing you how you debug syntax errors
within Python.
So if we run the code, you'll see that
we get this little error here, saying
SyntaxError, invalid syntax.
And then we get this little circumflex or
a caret, pointing towards the equals sign.
Now if we go back into our code.
And if we also, if we look in in here in
more detail.
It tells us where it's on line two.
So, if we come back to line two, then we
can
see that we've got, if name equal alex,
and that's not,
that is saying, the claim of it to be
equal is
not conditional, is not [INAUDIBLE] it has
to be two equal signs.
And so, that color sign there has actually
pointed us
to the correct location of the error, and
if we run
that again, you'll see that we get a
different error,
but with this one is now linked, no longer
an error.
And now this error here is pointing
towards the final quotes, and
you realize that I didn't actually set the
colon to be set there.
Which is what declares a block for the if
statement.
So if we now put a colon in, and run it
again, [SOUND]
you'll see it's now working, but it's
going down into our other area.
Now this one is an unusual one, because
it's pointing towards
the t on a print which, there isn't
actually an error here.
What we are actually looking at is the
line before, or
two lines before, and we got an odd number
of brackets here.
Now we got two opening and then one
closing which leaves 1 and
one more opening, which makes it 2 again
and then minus 1, 2, 1.
We need to add another one to make it back
to 0.
And if we run that.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Now, we get an unprecedented indent, and
the reason
for that is because it's now indented, too
far in.
And in Python, ind you have to indent to
show a codeblock.
So if something's indented when it
shouldn't be,
or something isn't indented enough, then
it won't work.
So if we undo that indent, [SOUND] then we
get it to finally recognize that
we need to put brackets around here,
because print is a function.
So as you can see, before when it was
pointing at
the t, it actually should have been
pointing at the k here.
And we should have noticed that there
wasn't the correct number of brackets
here, and obviously because Python's an
interpreter,
it's doing its best to tell us.
However, we do need to still look at it
and work out what the actual answer is.
And so if we put the brackets around that,
save it again, and run.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Oh, and I made a mistake there entering
the code, that should have been an i.
Sorry about that.
There we go, and run that again, then we
get 95.
The reason why that error was there
before.
With the k, is because we were trying to
add on a number which we hadn't actually
set.
So here we were doing k is equal to i
times j,
which is fine, and then the result of
that, plus j plus k.
Now k doesn't actually have a value, it
hasn't
been set, so you can't put your answer
towards that.
And that is why [SOUND], I've just changed
that
to i because it should have been i
initially.
In your file it will now be i, so don't
worry about that.
Okay, so now you can see that the final
answer now is 95.
Which if we did that on the calculator,
would be correct.
And, that is how you debug syntax errors
within Python.
[SOUND]